- 3-8 column layout
- at least 2 images or other media
- successfully navigate at least 3 pages
- some javascript code

1. My final project will be a website about the the former Union general and U.S. president Ulysses S. Grant. It will include two separate pages to display general synopses about his time as both a general and a president as well as some highlights of particularly interesting tactics and maneuvers that earned him his status as one of the greatest generals in world history. It will also contain a page for random facts about or related to him that I personally find particularly interesting. This page will include a random fact generator to create random untrue facts about Grant, specifically because it's funny. Unfortunately, to maintain an air of professionalism for this project the false fact generator will be clearly marked as such and separated from the true ones. Depending on time, I may implement more JavaScript ideas, such as an odd, non-applicable quote generator.

2. This website would be targeted toward anyone with next to no knowledge of our 18th president who wants to learn some quick information about him. It will contain two pages with relatively in-depth synopses about his two major careers for those who are more interested in basic history, as well as a page for random facts for those with smaller attention spans or who simply desire some bits of the stranger parts of our history. Using the fact generator, it will also serve the many people who desperately desire to lie about former president Ulysses S. Grant on the internet for fun. Every page will contain some images to help visualize Grant and the related events.

3. This website will hardly be unique outside of my personal approach, as there are plenty of examples of deep dives into historical figures, and mine won't be anywhere near the deepest. However, the website will be tailored specifically to my desires and personal brand of historical intrigue and may provide a unique look into an iconic character that isn't often discussed. If nothing else, this website will provide an outlet for me to discuss the interestingly tragic circumstances of Grant and his life, and may allow others with similar mindsets a taste of the strange little drunkard genius that may entice them into further study.

This website may be a better option for people who don't want to read an entire biography or Wikipedia page and would prefer a more bite-sized approach to learning about an important historical figure. While I intend on including the more necessary facts about Grant himself, I also want to include some lesser known information even just loosely related to Grant, for example, the election of 1876, an election so horribly corrupt and broken that it was thrown out entirely. While Grant wasn't running in this election, many believe it was a direct result or at least largely influenced by the rampant corruption in his presidency's second term, and it's a story I find fascinating that most Americans have never heard. This website could hypothetically be an opportunity to introduce people into an odd and seldom discussed portion of American history that I'm relatively passionate about.

4. Getting the general structure of the site may be relatively simple, but styling it with CSS to look professional will be a large obstacle for me, as I'm far more comfortable with numbers than aesthetics. Regardless, through trial and error I expect it can, at the very least, look presentable, and be mostly bug free. Typical HTML, CSS and JavaScript bugs will be expected. I'm fairly certain I'll forget a semi-colon or two, capitalize a wrong word, misremember how a tag works, and plenty more. Naturally, I will take the necessary precautions, such as ensuring I use standard coding practices, validating my code and programming the site incrementally.

5. I'm moving forward with this project because it gives me an opportunity to learn more about one of the more fascinating characters of history and allows me a place to display what I personally find particularly interesting. I intend to map out an abstract idea for the initial design, then build the site in individual pieces until it's finished. Maintaining one style will be crucial, though I imagine it'll be fairly complicated and take some time to get one that feels right considering this is my first true web design project and I am not particularly observant or sensitive to pleasing design. I'm looking forward to gaining a better understanding of the challenges this will pose as, from my understanding, web development is currently almost certainly one of the most desirable fields in software development and thus will be a valuable skill to hone.